# CSS-THEORY
   ## CSS means Cascading Style Sheets. CSS was first proposed by Hakon Wium Lie on 10 October 1994.At time,Lie was working with Tim Berners-Lee at CERN research institute of Switzerland.Stylesheet language used to describe the look & formating of a document written in HTML.It is used to define the styles of elements on a web page,such as the font,color,size & layout of text and other elements.
   ### Importance of CSS: 1)Styling & Responsive design , 2)Seperation  of concern & appearnace , 3)Reusability & animation.
   ### Reasons to learn CSS: 1)Fast page speed , 2)Better UX & quick dev time , 3)Easy formating changes & compatibility across devices.
   ### CSS is a skin on skeleton of website.
   
# STARTING WITH CSS

### INLINE CSS: Inline css takes precedance over all other styles, and styles defined in the internal & external css are overridden by the inline css. There is no need to create an additional file, Because It Is defined in body section of HTML page. Pseudo-codes & pseudo-classes cannot be styled with inline css. Inline CSS in not for BIG PROJECTS. give everytime style , font size ,border is the disadvantage of INLINE CSS. inline css.html 
### INTERNAL CSS: The Internal CSS is used to add a unique sytle for a single document.It is defined in head section of HTML page inside the style tag. ID's & classes can be used in internal CSS you do not need to numerous file.The might take precedance over EXTERNAL CSS. Internal CSS increases page load times.They are useful for only the page they are specified on. internal css.html
### EXTERNAL CSS: When you need to make chages to several pages,you often use the external CSS.It is perfect in this situation because it enables you to alter just one file to after the appearance of the complete website. It uses the "link" tag on every page & the link tag should be put inside the head section. external css.html   
### PRIORITY IN CSS:The Priority of CSS rule is important because it determines which styles are applied to an element when these are conflicting rules or multiple CSS applied to a single element .CSS order of priority 1)Inline css , 2)Internal css , 3)External css. Inline css has a higher priority than the internal css .Internal css has a higher priority than the External CSS.
### SELECTORS IN CSS: CSS selectors are used for selecting the HTML elements that you want to style & they are a fundamental part of working with CSS.In theory,Selectors are patterns used to select the elements to which a set of styles will be applied.CSS selectors can be used to select elements based on their type,class,ID,attributes or dynamic state or position.
### TYPES OF CLASS SELECTORS: 1)Simple Selectors , 2)Combinators , 3)Attribute Selectors , 4)Pseudo-class selectors , 5)Pseudo-element selectors .
### 1)SIMPLE SELECTOR: A simple selector is either a type selector or a universal selector. Simple selector are pretty straight forward & used most of the time in developement. i)Universal Selector * , ii)Element Selector , iii)Class Selector , iv)ID Selector , v)Selector list . 
### 2)COMBINATORS:  i)Descendent selector , ii)Child selector , iii)Adjacent sibling selector , iv)General sibling selector .
### 3)ATTRIBUTE SELECTOR: The [attribute="value"] selector is used to select elements with a specified attribute & value. i) [ attribute ~ ="value" ] selector, iii) [ attribute | = "value"] selector , iii) [ attribute ^ = "value"] selector , iv) [ attribute $ = "value" ] selector .
### 4)PSEUDO-CLASS SELECTOR: Pseudo-class are used to select elements based on their state, such as when the element is hovered over, when it has focus, or when it is the first  or last child of its parent element. i):hover , ii):focus , iii):link , iv):visited , v):active , vi):first-child , vii):lang , viii):nth-child().
### 5)PSEUDO-ELEMENT SELECTOR: CSS allows developers to create special types of selecotrs called pseudo-elements,which can be used to style specific parts of an HTML element . i)::first-line , ii)::first-letter , iii)::after , iv)::before , v)::marker , vi)selection .
### DIFFERENCE BETWEEN PSEUDO-CLASS & PSEUDO-ELEMENTS: Pseudo-classes select elements based on their state or characterstics, while Pseudo-elements select specific parts of an element. Pseuso-classes are defined by adding a colon (:) & Pseudo-elements are defined by adding two colon (::) .
### CSS SPECIFICITY: CSS specificity is a fundamental concepts in css that determines which css styles will be applied to an HTML element. Understanding how specificity works is crucial for creating well-structured & maintainable css code.
### FONTS: fonts are an essential aspect of design & can greatly affect the look & feel of a website or document. They can also play a role in how easily the content is understood & absorbed by the reader.Consistent font throughout a project help to create a cohensive & professional look . GOOGLE FONTS:- google fonts is a library of free, open-source fonts that you can use on your web projects.It was launched in 2010 & has since become one of the most popular sources for web fonts, with over 800 fonts available.The font are free to use & can be easily customized. 
### BOX-MODEL: the term "box-model" is used when discussing a web application's design & layout. It is box that wraps around every HTML element. It consists : margins , borders , padding & the actual content . 
### COLORS: colors play a significant role in the design of a website & can greatly affect the user experience. Colors can be used to create visuals,draw attention to important elements & establish a mood or tone. They can also be used to convey brand identity & personality . Specifying colors in CSS:- 1)Using predefined color names , 2)Using hexadecimal color codes , 3)RGB values , 4)HSL values , 5) "rgba" function , 6)"hsla" function , 7) "transparent" keyword .
### BACKGROUND IN CSS: The background of an element is css refers to the area behind the content of an element.The background can be set to a color or image & can be repeated or positioned as desired one of the main reasons to set a bgk in css is to add visual intrest or aesthetic appeal to a page or element. Background properties in CSS are 1)bgk-color , 2)bgk-image ,3)bgk-repeat ,4)bgk-size ,5)bgk-attachment .
### PADDING: Padding proerties are used to generate space around an element's content, inside of any defined borders with CSS, you have full control over the padding. There are properties for setting the padding for each side of an element ( top , left , bottom ,right ) . padding-top , padding-left , padding-bottom , padding-right . PADDING PROPERTY VALUE :- 1)Length -Specifies a padding in px,pt,cm,etc . 2)% - Specifies a padding in % of the width of the containing element. 3)inherit - Specifies that the padding should be inherited from the parent element .
### MARGIN: When no defined borders surround an element, a space is created using the CSS margin attributes.You have complete control over the margin through CSS. Each side of an element can have its margin set using attributes ( top,left,bottom,right ) . margin-top , margin-left , margin-bottom , margin-right . MARGIN PROPERTY VALUE :- 1)auto-when the browser calculates the margin.  2)Length -Specifies a padding in px,pt,cm,etc . 3)% - Specifies a padding in % of the width of the containing element. 4)inherit - Specifies that the padding should be inherited from the parent element .
